Intro-
   "Good evening everyone, good to see you all.
   I'm Rafael and with my partner our subject tonight is to introduce to you about how to build a nautural necklace.
     There are three parts to this presentation. Firstly I gonna give to you an overview concerning about resins. Secondly we will talk about which materials are necessary for build it up. Finally we gonna demonstrate how you can do your own resin necklace.
     By the end of the presentation, you will understand more about how succeed building necklaces as a hobby"

Part 1-
    "Resins can be natural or synthetic organics compound, they are noncrystallines and viscous, not soluble in water and they oxidize, being harden in contact with oxygen. Also can easily converted into polymers. Examples of natural resins are: Amber, Myrrh, Shellac, Peruvian Balm, Castor oil. Examples of synthetic resins are: Polyester, Polypropylene, Phenolic and Epoxy."
   
    Images, chemistry.

Part 2-
	"what we will need?
	for create a necklace using resin first we need a model, the most common model is made by silicon, but we can use another materials as well, in my first attempt I got used a bar of soap as model, making the shape that will receive the resin.
	after we got the model we need some kind of recipient for make the mix of resin and catalyst, the objects made by Polypropylene (PP) can handle with the resin, another kinds of plastics and polymers could not work well because the resin could dissolve them.
	the ratio of catalyst to resin is for 100 ml 30-40 drops of catalyst
	now we need to choose a kind of resin we have with low and hight viscous
	I like to use with low viscous, because is more easy to put in the recipient, the last time I used with the high viscous I did a mess.
	the results is the same, choose the one that best fits you
Part 3-
	after mix the up the resin and catalyst in 5 to 10 minutes the resin will be more harden
	between this time we can put some crystals and another kind of objects to be inside of the piece. (remember do not put insects or something that has water inside for this kind of work we have another type of strategy)
	Note: Remember the crystals are heavier than the resin so they will stay in the bottom if you want to sink at least one strategy and wait for the resin to dry a bit so the resin will have enough strength to support the crystals.
	now we need to wait the resin dry for complete, normally one day or more
	note: do not expose the piece directly to the sunlight, it may yellow
	after we will remove the piece of the model we need remove the imperfections by sanding.
	in sanding process start with thick grammage like 100 or 150, and we going to up the grammage by going to 600 and sandpapers like 1200 or 2000.
	to give shine, an option is polishing paste, we recently discovered that a toolhpaste of brand "Sorriso" also server, applying a little on cloth and rubbing on the piece until it reach the shine.
	

Cheers,
Rafael Brito, teammate.
